261
段一．
It’s the ideal solution to that tragic conflict between philosophical education and the state which we have shown to exist in Plato’s earlier work.
1.对于哲学教育和我们已展示存在于柏拉图早年作品中的国度的悲剧性冲突，这是理想的解决方法。
2.我们在柏拉图早期的作品中可以看到，在哲学教育与国家之间存在着悲剧冲突，而《理想国》是完美的解决方案。
//修改原因：1.句子过长
3.在柏拉图的早期作品中就曾指出，哲学教育与国家难以相容，而《理想国》是理想的解决方案。

The conflicts had been symbolized in the death of the just man on whom Plato’s thought was focused throughout his earlier life.
1.这种冲突已经在一个整个早年生活被柏拉图思想禁锢的正义人士的消亡中得以象征。
2.柏拉图早年思想关注的正义之士的消亡，使这种冲突显而易见。
//修改原因：1.句子过长 2.理解偏差
3.柏拉图早年所关注的正义之士的消亡，使这种冲突得以彰显。

At that time it seemed to mean a complete severance between reason and the state.
1.在那个时代，理性和国度之间似乎意味着分离。
2.在那个时代，这似乎意味着理性和国度的彻底决裂
//修改原因：1.理解偏差（主语没搞对）
3.在那个时代，这似乎意味着理性与国家不可共存。

But in The Republic there arises,behind the strife and suffering of that gigantomachy,the vision of a new cosmos which shall absorb the positive values of the old order and take over its forms.
1.但是在冲突和神仙打架的背后，对新宇宙的幻想开始在《理想国》兴起，吸收了以前秩序的积极价值并掌握了它的形式。
2.巨大的战争和苦难背后蕴藏着新宇宙的前景，他在《理想国》中诞生，他将吸收旧秩序的积极价值，并接管其形式。
//修改原因：1.“神仙打架”处翻译不当
3.但是新宇宙的前景在《理想国》中诞生，在经历了巨大的斗争和苦难的之后，它开始吸收旧秩序的精华，并接管其形式。

Plato calls for the rule of the philosopher because of his conviction that the constructive force in the new world that is being born will be philosophy-i.e reason,the spirit which the state tried to destroy in the person of Socrates.
1.柏拉图倡导哲学家的秩序，因为在他的设想中，这个正在孕育中的新世界的建设力量会是哲学，也就是理性——国家试图去摧毁的苏格拉底的精神。
2.柏拉图呼吁哲学家的统治，因为他相信，在这个正在诞生的新世界中，哲学将会是建设力量，也就是理性——国家试图摧毁的苏格拉底精神
//修改原因：1.rule翻译为“统治”，call for翻译为“呼吁”，conviction在这里理解为“相信，坚持”更恰当
3.柏拉图号召哲学家占据统治地位，因为他相信促使新世界诞生的建设性力量将会是哲学，特别是国家试图摧毁的苏格拉底的精神——理性。

Only reason,which had created the perfect state in idea,could translate it into reality.
1.只有已经在概念上有了完美国度的思想，才能使其成真。
2.只有在概念上创造了完美国度的理性，才能使其成真
//修改原因：1.主语是“reason”而不是“idea”

Now,for the first time in The Republic,philosophy comes into the foreground.
1.现在，在《理想国》，哲学第一次迎来了曙光。
2.现在，在《理想国》中，哲学开始登场。
//修改原因：1.“come into the foreground”——走上前，登场，进入前台
3.现在，借助《理想国》，哲学第一次走上了历史的前台。

Until now it had been concealed behind its work,it newly created idea state；but now it boldly advanced its claim to supremacy.
1.直到现在，他重新创造的理想的国度已被隐藏在了作品的背后，但是现在他盲目地去争夺至高无上的地位。
2.在此之前，哲学被隐藏在重新创建的理想国家背后，但是现在它勇敢的去争夺霸主地位。
//修改原因：1.“it”指代的是前文提到的“philosophy”，误理解为“idea state”
3.在此之前，它蛰伏在作品——新创造的理想国家背后，但是现在，它大胆的去争夺至高无上的地位。

This claim does not spring from the usual will to power,and its apparent contradiction of Plato’s earlier criticisms of the state and its power is only nominal.
1.这种需求并非起源于对权利庸俗的渴望，并且在柏拉图早期对国度和权利的批判中存在的明显矛盾只是有名无实的。
2.这种主张并非起源于通常意义上对权力的渴望，在柏拉图早期对国家和权力的批判中存在的明显矛盾，是有名无实的。
//存疑：矛盾有名无实？ //已解决，权力有名无实
3.这一主张并非起源于通常意义上的权力意志，他与柏拉图早期对国家的批判明显矛盾，其权力只是名义上的。

Behind the condemnations of pleionexia,greedy aggrandizement,in the ‘power-state’ which were expressed in Gorgias,lay the claim of philosophy itself to rule.
1.尽管在高尔吉斯的权利地位的描述中饱受贪婪狂和丧心病狂的贪心的诟病，它将哲学主张本身置于规则之下。
2.在《高尔基斯篇》的“权力国家”中深受贪婪，贪心扩张的诟病，声称哲学本身将处于统治地位。
//存疑：主语是谁？

Plato did not condemn power as bad as itself;
He merely subjected the concept of power to a thorough dialectic clarification which purged away the stains of selfishness from it.
1.柏拉图并不认为权利本身有错。
他仅仅反对那些试图利用完善逻辑来为其自私污点开脱的说辞。
3.柏拉图认为权力本身无罪。
他仅仅对权力的概念进行了彻底的辩证澄清，从而洗去了权力中自私的污点。
//修改原因：1.“subject”理解为“反对”有误，此处是“subject the concept”


He freed it from arbitrary whim,and turned it back to pure will,since the unalterable aim of will is,by nature,the good.
1.他使其摆脱了武断的幻想，并回归原始的欲望，因为欲望中不可更改的目的在本质上是好的。
2.他把权力从武断的想法中解放出去，并回归纯粹的意志，因为意志的目的是不可改变的，本质上是好的。
//修改原因：1.表达不通顺
力从武断的想法中3.他把权力从武断的想法中摆脱出来，并回归纯粹的意志，因为权力的意志从本质上是好的，这点从未变过。
No human being wants to be mistaken about what he considers good and beneficial.
1.没有人想在自己认为好的，有益的事情中存在误解。
2.没有人想在自己认为好的，有益的事情上犯错
//修改原因：1.“mistake”此处为“犯错”

Real power can consist only of the ability to fulfill the natural aspiration to attain this end.
1.真正的权利只包含推动原始欲望执行到底的能力。
2.真正的权力只包含推动原始愿望执行到底的能力。
//修改原因：1.“权力”非“权利”

段二．
Therefore true power assumes genuine knowledge of the good.
1.所以真正的权力承担着真正的良知。
2.所以真正的力量是以对善的真正认知为前提的。
//修改原因：1.句意理解有误
3.所以真正的良知是获得真正权力的基石。

And so,paradoxically,philosophy becomes the way to true power.
1.这样一来，似是而非地，哲学成为了获得真正能量的途径。
2.这样一来，似是而非地，哲学成了通往真正权力的道路。
3.如此，哲学似乎就成了通向权力的坦途。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

In The Republic also,Plato proves that the claim of philosophy to supremacy is directly justified by its nature.
1.柏拉图在理想国中证实哲学至高无上的主张在本质上正好合乎情理。
2.在《理想国》中，柏拉图也证实了哲学至高无上的主张可以直接由其本质证明。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
4.并且在《理想国》中，柏拉图也用哲学的本质直接证明了这种主张，即哲学至高无上。

Of course it must be defined more accurately-especially since it is introduced here without any previous discussion.
1.当然它必须被定义的更精确，特别是当它从未被讨论过，凭空出现。
2.当然，必须更准确的定义它——特别是讨论他之前没有任何铺垫
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.当然，这种主张必须被更精确的定义，因为在此之前，它并未被多加讨论。

Plato first of all takes us aback by his provocative thesis that the philosopher ought to rule,and then justifies it by explaining the nature of the philosopher,showing just why he is meant by nature to rule.
1.柏拉图首先以用他挑衅性的理论令我们吃惊，他认为哲学家应该制定规则，然后通过解释哲学家的本质来证明其合理性，显示出为什么他生来就该掌控规则。
2.柏拉图首先让我们吃惊的是他的煽动性论点，哲学家应该统治，然后通过解释他的本质来证明，展示出为什么他们是天生的统治者。
//修改原因：1.“provocative”误理解为“挑衅性”，此处为“煽动性”更合适
3.首先令我们吃惊的是柏拉图煽动性的理论，他认为哲学家应该来统治，进而用哲学家的本质来阐述，展示出为什么他们是天生的统治者。
262
段一．
As soon as he lays down this principle,wo recall the painfully elaborate discussion in his earlier books about the problem of right conduct,of true virtue,and of real knowledge;and suddenly we understand that they were all making towards one goals,which is now revealed.
1.在他制定规则的同时，我们想起了在他早期作品中费力精心策划的关于正义行为，真实美德，真正知识的问题，并且我们突然明白了他们都朝向现在已显现的同一个目标。
2.一提出这个原则，我们就会想到他在早起作品中对正义行为，真正美德，真正知识所做的煞费苦心的讨论，他们都为朝一个目标努力，现在这目标已经显现出来了。
//修改原因：1.“elaborate”翻译为“煞费苦心”更好
3.一提出这个规则，我们瞬间就明白了他在早期作品中费尽心血的一些讨论，关于正义行为，关于真正美德，关于真正知识，所为何事，为了同一个目标，现在已然明了。

Plato cannot possibly have meant,in this belief passage of The Republic,to give a description of the philosopher’s character which would be as vivid and impressive as that given in his earlier dialogues.
1.在《理想国》里的简短文章中，柏拉图不可能像他先前的对话那样，清晰深刻的描述哲学家的性格。
3.在《理想国》的这段简短文字中，柏拉图不可能像先前的讨论那样，清晰深刻的去描述哲学家的性格。

Here,as elsewhere,he assumes that his earlier books are known to the reader.
1.这里，像其他地方一样，他认为读者了解他之前的作品。
2.这里，像其他地方一样，他假定读者了解他之前的作品。
//修改原因：1.“假定”比“认为”更好

Still,the artistic structure of The Republic encourage us to imagine that this is the first time we have been made to think seriously about philosophy.
1.仍然，《理想国》的艺术结构促使我们认为这是我们第一次认真的思考哲学。
3.然而，《理想国》的艺术结构促使我们认为这是我们第一次被要求认真的思考哲学。

And in a way that is true.
1.从某种角度说这是对的。
3.从某种角度来说确实是这样。

The claim of philosophy to rule the state casts surprising new light upon it,and even its orthodox worshipper is bound to feel that this makes him revise his whole conception of it .
1.用哲学统治国家的主张打开了新世界的大门，即使是最虔诚的信徒都会认为这会使他全部观念得到洗礼。
2.哲学统治国家的主张打开了新世界的大门，甚至是虔诚的信徒也会觉得，这是他所有的观念得到了洗礼。
//修改原因：1.句子过长
3.哲学统治国家的主张是如此的新鲜，即使最虔诚的信徒也一定会觉得，这彻底改变了他的观念。

段二．
It is very moving indeed to watch how Plato,with complete and utter trust in the power of philosophy enthrones her at the centre of life and sets her the most strenuous of practical tasks.
1.凭借对哲学力量的完全信任，他使哲学成为生命的中心，并且用尽努力去推动她，这确实很令人感动。
2.凭借对哲学力量的完全信任，他把哲学置为生命的中心，让她去完成最艰巨的使命，这确实很令人感动。
//修改原因：1.“set”让哲学去做，而不是“推动”
3.柏拉图对哲学力量义无反顾的信任确实很令人感动，他使哲学加冕为生命的中心，并让她去解决最艰巨的任务。

Nowadays she is lonely and deserted.
1.现在她孤单无助。
3.而如今，她孤单无助。

She can hardly understand that it was only through her struggles with these mighty tasks that she put on the power and majesty of her early creative period.
1.她几乎不能理解正是通过她有力行为的努力，在有创造力的早期，她推动了力量和王权。
2.她很难理解，正是通过她与艰巨任务的抗争，在创造的早期，她才推动了力量和王权
//修改原因：1.调整句式
3.她很难明白，没有她与艰巨任务的抗争，就没有早期创造时期的王权和力量。

Yet there is a truth in Hegel’s melancholy epigram that MInerva’s owl does not begin her flight until dusk has fallen;and it is that tragic realization that casts its shadow over Plato in those final heroic efforts of the human mind to rescue the state from its destruction.
1.在黑格尔忧郁的警句里有着这样一个真相：雅典娜女神的鹰绝不会在夜幕降临前起飞；
正是这种悲剧性的领悟影响了柏拉图，让他成为人类思想方面的伟人来挽救国度的灭亡。
2.黑格尔的富含悲剧色彩的警句中隐藏着这样一个真相：不灭亡，不醒悟。
正是这种领悟深深地影响着柏拉图，让他挽国家之将倾，在思想层面上作出了卓越贡献。
3.黑格尔的富含悲剧色彩的警句中隐藏着这样一个真相：智慧的猫头鹰绝不在日落前觅食。
正是这种领悟深深地影响着柏拉图，让他挽国家之将倾，在思想层面上作出了卓越贡献。

But even an aging civilization has its youth;
And Plato’s philosophy is the youth energy in its epoch.
1.但是即使是沧桑的文明也曾经充满活力，柏拉图的哲学就是他们时代的活力。
3.但即使沧桑的文明也孕育着新生，柏拉图的哲学就是这时代的新生力量。

Therefore it enlists the enthusiastic young men whom Plato like to picture crowding a round Socrates,in a crusade to preach a new birth to the aging and sceptical and hypercivilized state of the fourth century.
1.所以它描绘出一群柏拉图乐意去形容的苏格拉底的狂热的年轻信徒，像十字军东征一样去向四世纪的苍老，多疑并且高度文明的国度宣扬一个新生的事物。
2.因此，他招募年轻人，柏拉图乐意把他们描绘成簇拥在苏格拉底周围的人，像十字军东征一样，在四世纪的老龄化，怀疑主义和过度文明中鼓吹新生。
//修改原因：1.调整句式
3.因而，哲学吸引了热情的年轻，柏拉图喜欢把他们称作簇拥着苏格拉底的人，他们像十字军东征一样，在四世纪的老龄化，怀疑主义和过度文明的逆潮中鼓吹新生。

That was what philosophy felt to be her duty,not so much because she was herself a power invested with a great historical tradition,glorified by many honourable titles and functions-discoverer of nature,solver of the riddle of the universe,explorer of the cosmos,but because she felt herself inspired by Socrates with a new strength,the power to impart to mankind the reviving knowledge of true standards of human life.
1.那就是为什么她以哲学为己任，并不在于她认为自己是自己的力量源泉，去研究伟大的历史传统，因很多崇敬的称号和贡献而荣耀，不以自然的发现者，世界的解密者，宇宙的探索者自居，而是因为她认为自己深受苏格拉底新的力量的鼓舞，一种去告知人类关于真正的人类生活标准的振兴知识的力量。
3.这就是哲学认为自己所承担的使命，并非是因为她是巨大历史传统诞生的力量，并非是因为她享有自发现者，世界解密者，宇宙探索者的崇敬称号和荣誉，而是因为她深受苏格拉底的新的力量的鼓舞——使人类重新认识人类生活真正的标准的力量。

263
段一．
It is under this aspect that Plato explains the nature of philosophy in The Republic.
1.这是柏拉图在《理想国》里阐述哲学本质的前提。
2.柏拉图正是在这一方面阐释了《理想国》中哲学的本质。
//修改原因：1.“under this aspect”——在这一方面
3.在《理想国》中，柏拉图正是从这个方面阐述了哲学的本质。

He outlines a brief catechism defining its nature by the object of its knowledge.
1.他以知识为目的通过简洁的问答法概述出了本质的定义。
2.他概述了一个简单的教义问答，以知识的对象定义其性质
//修改原因：1.调整表达

The philosopher is a man who is unwilling to surrender to manifold impressions of his senses,and to be driven around all his life on the uncertain sea of opinion.
1.哲学家不会愿意向自己感官的多种印象屈服，并且一辈子都在知识未知的海洋里探索。
2.哲学家不会像感官的种种印象屈服，不愿在变幻莫测的舆论海洋中度过一生。
//修改原因：1.句意理解有误

His mind is bent on the unity of existence.
1.他们的思想专注于存在的统一。
2.他一心一意追求存在的统一。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.他们专注于存在的统一。

He alone possesses a true knowledge and wisdom.
1.他除了真正的知识和智慧外一无所有。
2.只有他拥有真正的知识和智慧。
//修改原因：1.句意跑偏

Below the manifold individual phenomena,he can detect the permanent and universal foundation of things,the ‘idea’.
1.他能发现潜藏于各种特例现象之下永恒普遍的基础——思想。
2.在各种个体现象之下，他能发现永恒而普遍的基础——思想。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.透过错综复杂的个体现象，他能侦查到永恒而普遍的基石——思想。
Only he can define what is just and what is beautiful in itself.
1.只有他能定义什么是公正什么是美。
3.公正，美好的判断准则为他所掌握。

The opinions of the masses about these and all other problems problems veer about in the twilight between reality and unreality.
1.大众关于这些以及其他所有问题的观点在现实与虚幻的黎明中转变。
2.群众对这些及其他问题的看法，都在现实与虚幻的朦胧中变化着。
3.群众对这些及其他问题的看法都飘忽不定，在虚实的朦胧中变化。

Statesmen are no different from the masses.
1.政治家们和大众没什么不同。
2.政治家没什么不同（结合上句）。

They look for the guidance to all sorts of constitutions and laws-but,as Plato says in The Statesman,these are the imitations of truth.
1.他们寻求各种法律和规则的保护，即柏拉图在《政治家篇》中所提到的，真理的模仿。
3.正如柏拉图在《政治家篇》所提到的那样，他们寻求各种法律和规则的保护，而这些规则不过对真理的模仿。

Therefore if a man knows no better to copy them,he is only an imitator of imitations.
1所以觉得不如去复制他们的人，不过是模仿品的模仿者。
3.所以想要去复刻他们的人，仅仅是模仿品的模仿品。

The philosophy is the man who has a clear paradeigma,a pattern to imitate,within his own soul.
1.哲学家在内心中有着清晰的范例和模式去模仿。
3.哲学家的内心有着清晰的准则去遵循。

When everything else rocks around him,he holds his gaze fixed upon that standards.
1.当其他所有事影响他时，他会把目光关注再这个标准上。
2.万事纷扰，其心永恒
//修改原因：1.调整表达

The ability to apprehend it is the power of the vision which the true guard needs more than anything else.
1.去理解这个的能力是一种真正守卫最需要的视角上的力量。
2.理解他的能力存在于洞察力中，这是真正卫士最需要的。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.真正卫士最需要的能力，便是通过观察的力量去理解它。

If a philosophy can combine that with experience and other good qualities necessary for the practical government of the state,he is far superior to the general run of statesmen.
1.如果哲学家能够将这个能力与经验以及其他必要的优秀品质结合，并用于实际的国家管理，那么他将远远比一般的政治家要优秀的多。
3.若是能将这个能力与经验，以及其他实际的国家管理方面必备的优秀品质相结合，哲学家将远比一般的政治家优秀。

段二．
This description of the philosophy illuminates the intellectual attitude and the point of departure of Plato’s theory of the state itself.
1.这种对于哲学的形容展示了智慧的态度和柏拉图理论对国家本身的远离情绪。
2.这种对哲学的阐述，表明了柏拉图对国家理论本身的知性态度和出发点。
//修改原因：1.“the point of departure”应译为“出发点”
3.这种对哲学的描述，阐明了柏拉图关于国家理论本身的理性态度和出发点。

He holds that the greatest weakness of the political and moral world is its lack of a supreme authority to fix aims to attained and rules for attaining them.
1.他认为法律和道德世界最大的缺陷是缺少一个绝对的权威来确立要实现的目标，和为了实现所创立的规则。
2.他认为法律和道德世界最大的缺陷是，他缺少一个绝对的权威来确立要实现的目标，和为了实现所创立的规则。
//修改原因：1.句子过长
3.柏拉图认为，没有一个绝对的权威来确立目标和制定为实现目标所需要规则，是法律和道德世界最大的弱点。

It was in the effort to create such a power that democracy had been born.
1.它试图去创造一个强大的力量让民主得以诞生。
2.在努力创造这样一种权力的过程中，民主诞生了。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.在创造这种权威的努力中，民主诞生了。

It has solved the problem of creating it by accepting the will of the majority as the supreme legislative authority.
1.他通过以大众的意愿作为权威立法机构解决了这个问题。
2.他通过接受大众的意愿作为立法权威，解决了创建他的问题。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.通过以多数人的意志作为立法权威，问题得以解决。

This system depended on a lofty estimate of the the reasoning powers of the individual,and it was for long considered to be the most advanced of all types of constitution.
1.这个体系依赖于对个人合理能力的崇高判断，并且从长远考虑，要比所有形式的机构先进。
2.这个体系依赖于对个人合理能力的高度评价，长期以来被认为要比所有形式的宪法先进。
//修改原因：1.“constitution”应翻译为“宪法”。
3.这一制度依赖于对个人推理能力的高度评价，长期以来被认为是各种宪法中最先进的。

Yet ,just like the others,it suffered from human imperfection.
1.然而，就像其他形式一样，他还是受到人类缺陷的影响。
2.然而，就像其他宪法一样，他还是受到人类缺陷的影响。
3.然而，像其他宪法一样，它受人类缺陷的影响。

As it developed in the great Greek cities,it came more and more be a tool in the hands of unscrupulous agitators,trained by the particular type of educator known as a sophists.
1.正如在伟大希腊城邦的发展一样，它会逐渐的变成被诡辩家这种特殊形式训练出的肆无忌惮的挑拨者的工具。
2.随着它在希腊各大城市发展，他逐渐成为肆无忌惮的鼓动者手中的工具，这种鼓动者是由诡辩家这种特殊类型的教育家训练出来的。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.随着它在希腊各大城市发展，它渐渐沦为肆无忌惮的鼓动者手中的工具，这种鼓动者是由一种特殊类型的教育家——诡辩家训练出来的。

Plato describes them as being like animal trainer,who spend their lives trying to learn the whims of ’the big beast’ - the mob - and who are intimately acquainted with the noises it makes to signify pleasure or anger.
1.柏拉图把它们形容为驯兽师，它们用尽一生去研究最大的野兽-暴徒的奇想，并且亲切的熟悉暴徒代表哀乐的噪声。
2.柏拉图把它们形容为驯兽师，它们用尽一生去研究最大的野兽-暴民的怪念头，并对其表示快乐和气愤的噪音了如指掌。
//修改原因：1.“了如指掌”更生动
3.柏拉图把他们形容为驯兽师，究其一生去研究‘最大的野兽’——暴民的奇怪想法，并对暴民的喜怒哀乐了如指掌。

264
段一．
Their art consists of handling it correctly,and managing it just as they wish through flattering it and carefully suiting themselves to its varying moods.
1.他们的艺术包含了正确的处理他们，和像预想的那样通过奉承他们并且细心的使他们适应变化的情绪。
2.他们的艺术是正确的处理他们，通过奉承和小心地适应他们他们的不同情绪来管理他们。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.他们的艺术是，通过奉承和小心翼翼的适应他们不同的情绪，来随心所欲地正确的处理和管理暴民。

This makes the approval of the mob into the highest standard of political action-and that spirit of conformity gradually invades the whole life.
1.这使得获得暴徒的认同成了最高标准的政治行为，并且这种统一的精神将影响整个人生。
2.这使得对群众的认同成了最高的政治准则，这种从众心理将渗透到整个人生。
//修改原因：1.调整表达（翻译为“从众”更合理）
3.这使得暴民的认同即为最高政治标准，这种从众心理将影响人的一生。

If people have to conform to the prevailing methods of the winning the mob’s approval,true education,oriented towards the lodestar of permanent standards,will become impossible.
1.如果民众需要去遵从这种流行的办法去获得乌合之众的同意，真正的教育，用北极星判别方向的永恒标准都会变得不可能。
3.如果人民不得不迎合这种趋势，去获得暴民的认同，那么真正的教育，北极星方位的永恒标准都不复存在。

From his very earliest writings,Plato makes great play with Socrates’ criticism of political orators for not knowing the facts about their subject.
1.在他早期的作品中，柏拉图花费了很大的笔墨去描述苏格拉底对于政治演说家并不真正了解自己演说主题的现象的批评。
3.柏拉图在其早期作品中，花费了很大的笔墨去描述苏格拉底对政治演说家的批判，演说家们甚至并不了解自己所讲的主题。

In Gorgias he compares this kind of rhetorician’s politics with the attitude of the philosopher,who subordinates every action to the knowledge of his highest aim,the good.
1.在《高尔吉亚篇》里，他把雄辩家的政治和哲学家的态度做了对比，能使每一个行为都符合他的最高目标的更好。
2.在《高尔吉亚篇》里，他把雄辩家的政治和哲学家的态度做了对比，后者能使每一个行为都置于对最高标准——善的认识上。
//修改原因：1.句意缺失
3.在《高尔吉亚篇》里，他把雄辩家的政治与哲学家的态度做了对比，后者的每一个行为都依附于对其最高目标——善的认识上。

He backs this highest norm,which the philosopher carries in his soul as a permanent model,is the touchstone of the true ruler.
1.他支持在哲学家内心作为永恒标准的准则，这是真正统治者的试金石。
2.他支持这一准则，这是哲学家灵魂中永恒的准则，是真正统治者的试金石。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.
段二．
With this view,we can understand the entire structure of The Republic.
1.在这个观点中，我们能理解整个《理想国》的结构。
3.借助这个观点，我们可以理解整个《理想国》的结构
Plato holds that philosophy is a saviour in time of need,because she possesses the solution to the most urgent of social problems.
1.柏拉图认为在需要时哲学是救星，因为她拥有解决大多数紧急的社会问题的方法。
3.柏拉图认为，哲学是危急时的救星，因为对于大多数紧急的社会问题，它都可应对。

If we assume that knowledge of the highest standard,in Plato’s sense,is possible，It is inevitable that we should start from point to reconstruct the collapsing state.
1.在柏拉图看来完全有可能的是，如果我们把哲学看作是最高标准的知识，那么从小处开始重建这失落的国度是不可避免的。
2.在柏拉图看来，如果我们有可能把知识作为最高准则，那么从小处开始重建这失落的国度是不可避免的。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.在柏拉图看来，如果把知识作为最高标准的观点可以被我们接受的，那么从思想上重建这失落的国度不可避免。

Its real monarch,the fountain of all authority and power,must be the knowledge of the Truth.
1.国度的真正君主，权威和权利的基础，一定是真理。
2.国家真正的君主，权威和权力的源泉，一定是对真理的认知。
3.对真理的认识，是真正的君王，是权威和力量的源泉。

And that is naturally not possibly for the masses-only for a few.
1.自然地，这对于大众来说是不现实的，它只属于少数人。
3.自然地，她不属于大众，她只属于少数人。

Plato does not start psychologically,from the problem of handling the masses.
1.出于处理大众的问题，柏拉图并未亲身实践。
2.柏拉图并未在心理上，从解决群众的问题出发。
//修改原因：1.句意理解有误

He start from the claims which the highest moral and intellectual type of man must make on the state in order to devote himself wholeheartedly to his duty.
1.他从主张最道德最智慧的人们从国度获利，以此来全身心投入自己的职责开始。
2.他从最高指挥和道德的人必须对国家做出的要求出发，以便全身心的献身于他的职责。
//修改原因：1.句意理解有误

In the same of the higher element that exists in man,he declares that philosopher must rule.
1.同样的，作为人类中最优秀的存在，哲学家也被他认为应该统治国度。
2.同样的，作为人类中最优秀的存在，他宣称哲学家也必须统治
//修改原因：1.调整表达

And the most obvious peculiarities of his Republic-the organic interconnection of the three classes,and its authoritarian government-arise simply and solely from the one basic principle that the state must be ruled by the knowledge of absolute truth.
1.并且，他的理想国中最显为独特的，三个阶级的有机交互和权威的政府，都仅仅是产生于一个基础准则，即国度必须服从绝对真理的制约。
2.共和国最显著的特点，三个阶级的有机交互，以及他的权威政府，都纯粹的产生于一个基本原则，即国家的统治必须建立在对真理的认知上。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

It is a simple construction,logically perfect.
1.这是一个在逻辑上完美的设定。
3.这是一个简单的设定，逻辑完美

Not one stone can be taken away from it;no one can be replaced by another.
1.（国度里）没一块石头可以被移走，每一个人都无可替代。
3.物有其用，人有其位。

Suppose we deprive the ruler of his character as a philosopher possessing absolute knowledge.
1.假设我们剥夺统治者的性格，正如剥夺哲学家所拥有的绝对知识。
2.假设我们剥夺了统治者作为拥有绝对知识的哲学家的品格。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
3.
According to Plato,we thereby destroy the foundation of his authority:for it does not depend on any mystic personal leadership,but on the power of the truth to convince.
1.柏拉图认为，这样是在破坏他统治的基础，因为这种统治不依赖任何杰出的个人领导力，靠的是坚信真理的力量。

265
段一．
And in the Republic everyone will voluntaries submit to the rule of truth,because everyone has been brought up in its spirits.
1.并且国度里的每个人都自觉地服从真理的规则，因为每个人都是在真理的精神中长大的。
2.在共和国里，每个人都自觉服从真理，因为每个人都是在真理的精神中长大的。
3.在共和国里，每个人都自觉服从真理，因为每个人都沐浴在真理的精神中成长。

The knowledge of the highest standard carried in the soul of the philosopher is the keystone of Plato’s educational Republic.
1.哲学家血液里流淌着的最高准则的知识是柏拉图教育国度的灵魂。
3.流淌在哲学家血液中对最高准则的认知，是柏拉图教育国度的主旨。

段二．
Knowledge of the ultimate standard is the foundation of the Republic.
1.最高准则的知识是理想国的基石。
2.对终极标准的认识是共和国的基石。


And yet,when Plato infers that only the philosopher,who possesses the knowledge，is fit to rule,he is confronted by the facts of experience.
1.然而，受困于实际经验，柏拉图作出了只有掌握了这种知识的哲学家才适合统治的推断。
2.然而，受困于实际经验，柏拉图作出了狭隘的推断，只有掌握了这种知识的哲学家才适合统治。
//修改原因：1.语句过长
3.然而，实际经验所限，柏拉图作出了只有掌握知识的哲学家才适合统治的推断。

Philosophers are usually rather vague and helpless in practical life.
1.现实是，在现实生活中，哲学家往往更糊涂和无助。
3.（然而）实际生活中，哲学家往往更糊涂，自身难保。

This section of The Republic is mainly concerned with answering the objection raised by Callicles in Gorgias,that philosophy was good enough ‘for paideia’ if it were practised for a few years in youth,but as a permanent occupation it debilitated men and made them unfit to cope with life.
1.理想国的这个章节主要是回答在《高尔吉亚篇》中卡里克勒提出的反对，他认为如果在青年时期接受几年哲学教育，那很好，但是作为终身的事业，将会使人疲倦，并且难以适应生活。
3.《高尔吉亚篇》中卡里克勒提出反对，他认为如果青年时期接受几年的哲学教育就已然足够，但若作为终身事业，它使人厌倦，并与实际生活脱离，《理想国》的这个章节就主要在回应这种反对。

Both in Gorgias and in The Republic Plato rejects this narrow conception of paideia as something that ought to be studied for a limited time and then dropped.
1.不论是在高尔吉亚还是在理想国中，柏拉图都反对这种把教化作为在有限时间内学习并在之后放弃的狭隘思想。
2.不论是在《高尔基亚篇》还是在《理想国》中，柏拉图都反对这种狭隘的思想——哲学应该在有限的时间内研究，然后放弃。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

In reply,he offers a metaphor-a vivid picture that could easily be converted into a cartoon for the front page of a satiric political magazine.
1.作为回应，他给了一个隐喻：在讽刺的政党杂志首页有一个可以变成卡通的清晰照片。
2.作为回应，他给了一个隐喻：一幅生动的图画，也可以看做是漫画，刊登在讽刺政治杂志的头版。
//存疑：“be converted to”在这里怎么理解  //转换

Imagine,he says,a ship’s captain who is very big and strong,but rather deaf and shorted-slighted,and rather ignorant of navigation too.
他说，设想一下，一个很魁梧的船长却是个视力不好的聋子，并且也不懂方向。

He is the public.
他就是公众。


He is surrounded by sailors arguing about the course to steer,and each claiming he ought to be the steersman.
他被包围在一群为掌舵争论不休的水手中间，每个水手都宣称自己应该是舵手。

They are the allegorical embodiment of the politicians who are each trying to grab the supreme power in the state.
1.他们就是国度里为了争夺权力的政客的讽刺化身。
2.他们就是政客寓言化身，每个人都试图攫取国家的最高权力。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

They do not believe steering in an art,nor that it can be taught;they all think they can steer perfectly well by themselves.
1.他们不相信掌舵是门艺术，不过他们也学不会；他们都认为靠他们自己就可以完美掌控。
2.他们不相信掌舵是门艺术，也不相信这是可以教的；他们都认为自己可以很好的掌舵。
//修改原因：1.“nor that it can be taught”理解有误

If anyone opposes them and keeps them from steering,they use force and toss him overboard.
1.如果有任何人反对他们，让他们不再掌控，他们就会利用权力，并且把他们驱逐出境。
2.如果任何人与他们作对，阻拦他们，他们就用力推他，把他抛到海里。
//修改原因：1.“overboard”误看成“abroad”

And they drug the true steersman,the only man who could guide the ship securely,and keep him from practising his art;and they sail on drinking and feasting.
1.并且他们会灌醉真正可以安全驾驶的舵手，让他没有能力发挥他的艺术，这样他们就可以在享乐中航行。
2.他们给真正的舵手下毒，这个舵手是唯一可以把船操纵的很稳的人，让他没有能力发挥他的艺术，这样他们就可以在享乐中航行。
//修改原因：1.“drug”改为“下毒”更符合语境

Whenever anyone helps them in terrorizing the captain and grasping power for themselves,they call him an able navigator.
当有人能帮他们控制船长，为他们夺权，他们就称他为合格的舵手。

The only true navigator,who has learnt his art properly,they call a useless star-gazing fool.
然而真正掌握航海艺术的驾驶员，被他们称作无用的看星星的傻子。




段三．
Plato is very anxious to distinguish the education of his philosopher from the ‘ paideia’ referred to by Callicles,which might occupy the sons of nobleman like himself for a few years,before they started ‘life in earnest’.
1.柏拉图急切的要将他的哲学与卡里克勒提到的教化区分开来，这种教化可能会在贵族子嗣享受奢侈生活之前占据他们几年的时光。
2.柏拉图急切的要将他的哲学与卡里克勒提到的教化区分开来，后者可能会在贵族子嗣享受奢侈生活之前，占据他们几年的时光。
3.柏拉图很想把他的哲学和卡里克勒的教化区分开来，后者可能会在贵族子嗣开始“认真生活”之前，占据上他们几年的时光。
//修改原因：1.句意不明

267
段一．
Compared with that paideia , the science which the ‘navigator’ has acquired seems to be very dry, and anti-humanist , and set on producing results.
1.和教化对比，这种所谓的舵手所需要的能力看起来很乏味，反人类，并且很难产生结果。
2.与“派迪亚”教化对比，这些舵手所需要的能力看起来乏味，反人类，并且持续产生结果。
//修改原因：1.语意偏差
3.与“派迪亚”教化相比，这些舵手所掌握的学问似乎枯燥，反人类，并且持续产生结果。

It is admittedly vocational training ; it is employed and fulfilled in the practice of the profession it teaches.
1.无可否认的，这是一种职业训练；充满了职业教学实践。
2.诚然，这是一种职业训练；它在所教授的专业实践中得到了应用和实现。
//修改原因：1.调整表达


So Plato seems not to agree with the attacks leveled by sophists and humanists against professionalism in education.
1.所以柏拉图似乎并不同意诡辩家和人道主义者提出的对于哲学的专业化教育方面的攻击。
2.因此，对于诡辩家和人道主义者对教育专业主义的攻击，柏拉图似乎并不同意。
//修改原因：1.语句过长

At first that seems rather paradoxical in a man who values knowledge for its own sake.
1.最开始，一个人因为知识本身的原因而重视知识看起来很矛盾。
2.乍一看，这对于一个因为知识本身而重视知识的人来说，这似乎相当矛盾

But it is clearly a way of defending Plato’s paideia against the charge of complete and deliberate ueslessness,which was levelled against it by contemporary educational authority，particularly IScorates.
1.但是，很显然，这是一种方法帮助柏拉图的教化免于当时教育权威特别是苏格拉底认为其完全并且蓄意无用的指控。
2.但是，很显然，这能帮柏拉图的教化免于指控，当时教育权威，特别是IScorates，认为它刻意并且完全无用。
3.但是，很显然，这是帮柏拉图的教化免于指控的方法，当时教育权威，特别是IScorates，认为它毫无用处。

//修改原因：1.语句过长
It has a purpose.It serves a vocation.
1.它有目标。它是职业。
2.它有目的。它为职业服务。

The vocation is the noblest possible for any man,that of saving the lives of those who are in the same ship.
1.这是对于任何人来说最崇高的可能，可以挽救同样在这艘船上的人。
2.对每一个人来说，挽救这船上的生命都是最崇高的使命。
3.对任何人来说，挽救同在一张船上的生命，都是最崇高的使命。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

Plato chose the image of the ship’s steerman to bring out two points.
柏拉图利用掌舵者的形象来阐述两点。

The first is that the navigator’s knowledge is indispensable for the safety of his fellow-men,and the second is that other men can not realize what it really mean.
1.第一点是掌舵人的知识储备与船上其他人的安全与否息息相关，第二点是其他人并不能理解他的行为。
3.首先船上成员的安危取决于掌舵人的知识，其次他人无法理解掌舵人的行为。
The crew thinks he is only eccentric fellow gaping at the stars,and taiking nonsense and wasting his time, because his work involves far more theory and method than they could possible understand.
1.大众认为他是个怪人，看星星，说废话，并且浪费大家的时间，因为他的事业所包含的远远超出了理论和方法，正常人不可能理解。
2.船员认为他是个怪人，看星星，说废话，浪费时间，因为他的工作涉及的理论和方法已经超出了他们的理解范围。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
Another interesting point in this passage is that Plato several times points out hat the helmsman’s method can and must be learnt, although the silly sailors think it is all a matter of practice.
另一点有趣的是，柏拉图在文章中几次提出，尽管愚蠢的水手认为仅仅实际操作就够了，舵手的方法是可以并且一定要学习的。
This a reference to Plato’s discussion of the political techne in Gorgias, and at the same time it reminds us of the beginning of Protagoras, where Socrates was doubtful whether political virtue could possibly be taught.
这指的是《高尔吉亚篇》中柏拉图讨论，同时它使我们想到在《普罗塔哥拉》的开头中苏格拉底对政治道德的可学习性的怀疑。
At the end of Protagoras, of course, his doubts were removed when he saw that virtue meant knowledge of the Good.
1.当然，在《普罗塔哥拉》的结尾，当他意识到美德意味着对善的认识，他的怀疑就消除了。
2.当然，在《普罗塔哥拉》的结尾，当他意识到美德意味着对善的认识，他的怀疑荡然无存。
In The Republic Plato does not permit Socrates to have any doubts.
在理想国中，柏拉图不允许苏格拉底有任何的怀疑。
By using the smile of the true art of navigation he prepares for the subsequent explanation of his own art of political navigation, the ruler’s philosophical education.
利用斯米莱的真正的掌舵艺术，柏拉图为他随后对于他自己的政治管理艺术做好了准备，即对统治者的哲学教育。
二、
But the image is not sufficient refutation of the charge that philosophers are useless.
1.但是这种描述并不足以反驳对于哲学家无用的指控。
2.但是这一形象并不足以驳斥哲学家无用的指控。
It is only the first step into a profound analysis of the philosopher’s position in the political community.
1.这只是深刻分析哲学政客地位的第一步。
2.这只是深入分析哲学家政客地位的第一步。
//修改原因：1.“深刻”改为“深入”更恰当
The widespread skepticism about the philosopher’s political ability is based principally on psychological grounds.
1.广泛的对于哲学家政治能力的怀疑主要是心理方面。
2.人们普遍怀疑哲学家的政治能力，主要是基于心理上的原因。
//修改原因：1.语句不通顺

267
Therefore the answer to it must go deeply into the psychology of the philosopher.
1.因此，对于这个怀疑的回答必须深入的了解哲学家的心理。
3.因此，解答这个怀疑，必须深入到哲学家的心理层面。
But Plato does not treat him as isolated figure.
但是柏拉图并没有把这个当做独立的问题。
His analysis is a masterly description of a type.
1.他的分析是一种巧妙的描述形式。
3.他以一种巧妙的描述形式进行分析。

It not only describes the characteristics of a particular class in the abstract, but explains its interactions with its social milieu.
1.它不仅仅是抽象的形容了特定阶级的特征，也解释了这与他社会背景之间的关联。
2.它不仅仅是抽象的描述了特定阶级的特征，也解释了这与他社会背景之间的相互作用。
//修改原因：1.“关联”改为“相互作用”更恰当

He takes the opportunity to reject many of the qualities usually attached to the name of philosophy.
1.他利用这个机会为哲学去掉了很多附加的品质。
2.他借此机会为哲学去除了很多标签。

But in his resolute defence of true philosophy, every concession to its critics changes into an accusation against the world.
但是在他对真正哲学的坚决捍卫中，所有对批评家的妥协都变为了对世界的批判。

His description of the philosopher’s fate becomes piercingly tragic.
1.哲学家的命运在他的形容下变得令人同情的悲惨。
2.哲学家的命运在他笔下变得尖锐而悲剧。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

More than any others in his work, these pages are written with his heart’s blood.
与作品中其他章节不同，这些文章是他用热血写下的。

Now he is thinking not only of the doom of the Socrates, and of the ‘failure’ of his powers before the task he had once thought of as his own.
1.现在，在这个他曾经认为是自己的事业开展之前，他思考的不仅仅是苏格拉底的命运和自己能力不足。 
2.现在，他不仅在思考苏格拉底的末日，也在想他在完成曾经认为是自己的任务时，会能力不足，导致失败。
//修改原因：1.语意理解有误

Strictly speaking,his defence of the philosopher begins before he says anything of the criticisms against him.
1.严格来说，在他反击批评家之前，他对哲学家的保护就开始了
2.严格来说，在他反击批评家之前，他对哲学家的保护早已开始。

Hitherto he says defined the philosopher only by the object of his knowledge;
1.到现在为止，他说对哲学仅仅用知识的对象来定义的。
2.迄今为止，他仅以知识的对象定义哲学。

but now he gives a description of the philosophical character which is indispensable for the understanding of his theory that the philosopher must rule-especially for modern readers,who are too apt to think that Greek word philosopher means scholar.
1.但是现在他给出了哲学家要遵守的来理解他的理论所必要的哲学特征，特别是对倾向于将希腊词语哲学家看作是学者的新时代读者。
2.但是，现在，他给出了哲学家必须要遵守的哲学特征，这种特征是理解他的理论所不可或缺的，尤其是对新时代读者而言——这些读者倾向于把希腊词语“哲学家”就是“学者”。
//修改原因：1.语句过长

His philosopher is not a professor of philosopher,nor indeed any member of the philosophical ‘faulty’,arrogating that title to himself because of his special branch of knowledge.
他所谓的爱智者并非是哲学的专家，也确实不是某个哲学机构中的成员——那些因为自己拥有知识的特殊分支而以哲学家自居的的人。

Still less is he an ‘original thinker’ - how could there be so many original thinkers in existence at one time as Plato needs for the administration of his republic？
更别提原创思想家了，怎么会同时出现这么多柏拉图需要的原创思想家来管理他的国度？

Although, as we shall shortly see,he uses the word to imply a great deal of specialized dialectical training,its root meaning is ‘lover of culture’,a description of the most highly educated or cultured type of personality.
1.尽管，正如我们很快要看到的那样，他用语言暗含了大量专门的辩证训练，更深层的含义是文化的信徒，一种对具有高度教育和文化修养人格的人的形容。
2.尽管，正如我们很快要看到的那样，他用这个词语暗含了大量的专门的辩证训练，更深层的含义是文化的信徒，一种对具有高度教育和文化修养人格的人的描述。
//修改原因：1.“word”在这里作“单词”讲

Plato sees the philosopher as a man of great intellectual power,quick apprehension and real eagerness to learn.
柏拉图把哲学家看作有智慧，有强大理解力和真正求知欲的人。

He is averse to all pretty details;he is always anxious to see things as a whole;
he looks down on time and existence from a great height.
1.他反对所有花里胡哨的细节，他乐于从整体上看事情，他站在很高的高度来看时间和空间。
2.他反对所有花里胡哨的细节，他渴望从看到事物的整体，他站的很高来俯视时间和空间。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

He does not prize his life,and cares little for external goods.
1.他并不吝啬自己的生命，毫不关心永恒的事务。
2.他不吝啬自己的生命，毫不关心身外之物。
//修改原因：1.“exteral”误看成“eternal”

Display is foreign to his character.
他不爱炫耀。

He is ‘a friend and kinsman’ of true,justice,courage and self-control.
他是真理，正义，勇气和自制的代言人。

Such a type, according to Plato,could be produced in reality.
1.柏拉图认为，这样的人在现实中真实存在。
2.柏拉图认为，这样的人在现实中可以存在。

It would be the product of early and constant selection,perfect education,and the maturity brought by years.
1.他将是早期持续挑选，良好教育，并在阅历中逐渐成熟的产物。
2.他是早期不断选择的产物，是完善教育的产物，是岁月成熟的产物。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

268
一．
His character of the philosopher does not at all resemble the typical pupil of the sophists.
1.这种哲学品质一点也不类似传统的诡辩家的学生。
2.哲学家的品质与传统诡辩家的学生完全不同。

The ‘intellectual’ who is known for constant criticisim of others is greatly disliked by Plato,and is driven out of his temple.
1.柏拉图很不喜欢因不停批评他人而出名的所谓智者，并且会把他们驱赶出自己的国度。
2.以不断批评他人所闻名的“知识分子”，深受柏拉图的厌恶，被逐出了他的圣殿。
3.靠不断批评他们而出名的所谓“知识分子”，深受柏拉图厌恶，并且在柏拉图的国度里难以立足。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

His principal emphasis is on harmony between mind and character.
他专注于思想和品质的统一。  
Therefore he sums up his philosopher quite simply by calling him kaloskagathos,
‘a gentleman’.
所以，他简单地用称呼他们绅士来概述哲学家。

268.
The real onus of the charge that the philosopher is useless falls on those who cannot use him.
1.指控哲学无用的真正责任落在了不懂哲学的人身上。
3.不懂哲学的人才会指控哲学无用。
Natures like his are few and far between.
1.像他这样品行的人很少并且相差很大。
2.像他这样品行的人少之又少。
//修改原因：1.“few and far between”应该译为少之又少

Besides that,he is exposed to very serious danger from the mass of the public,and constantly threatened with corruption.
除此之外，他暴露在公众带来的巨大危险中，并且时刻面临者被腐化的危险。

The danger is partly rooted within himself.
一部分危险存在于他的内心。

Each of the good qualities he possesses-courage,self-control,et cetera- can become a hindrance to true philosophical culture, if it is isolated from the others and developed disproportionately.
1.如果远离群众并且发展不平衡，那么他所拥有的每一项优秀品质-勇气，自制等等，都会成为通往真正哲学文化路上的障碍。
2.如果与其他哲学文化分离，并且发展不平衡，那么他拥有的每一项优秀品质-勇气，自制等等，都会成为通往哲学文化路上的障碍。
//修改原因：1.“others”指的是“other culture”，不是“other people”

Then again,he can be impeded by good looks,money,strength,influential relatives and other such ‘advantages’.
而且，美貌，金钱，力量，有权势的亲人和其他诸如此类的特权都会成为阻碍。

Healthy development depends on the proper nourishment,season and environment:these general requirements for every well-bred plant and animal are specially important for the strongest and finest natures.
1.健康的成长依赖于合适的营养，季节和环境，这些对于每一个良种动植物都普遍适用要求对强壮良好的特性尤其重要。
2.健康的成长依赖合适的养分，季节和环境，这对于每一个良种动植物都普遍适用的条件，对强壮良好的特性来说，尤其重要。
//修改原因：1.句子过长

The most gifted character is apt to become worse than the average man,if he is spoilt by bad ‘pedagogy’,bad upbringing.
如果受到错误的教育，最有天赋的天才往往比常人容易堕落。

The philosophical nature grows wonderfully an good ground,but produces the opposite of all its noble qualities,if it is sown and nourished in the soil of bad education-unless if it is helped by ’divine chance’.
1.哲学的本质在好的土壤里惊人成长，但如果播种施肥在不好的教育土壤，除非有极好的机会，不然将产生与神圣完全相反的品质。

三、
Students of Plato meet this idea,in this connexion,more than once.
柏拉图的学生印证了这个联系的观点不止一次。
It is that prodigies,inexplicable by ordinary human reason,may occur,and that they are not brought about by pure accident,but by the miraculous power of a protecting deity.
这种常人无法解释的奇迹会发生，并不是单单来源于纯粹的巧合，而是来自于隐秘神性所带来的不可思议的力量。

It is the expression of a religious interpretation of certain events which are both paradoxical and deeply significant.
这是带有宗教性的对于特定事件的解释的说法，这类事件往往矛盾并且伟大。

We can find this same ‘divine chance’ in Plato’s letters.

我们可以在柏拉图的文字中找到很多相同的“极好机会”。
For example,he thinks it was divine chance that,during his first stay in Sicily,he converted Dion,the nephew of the tyrant,to enthusiastic support of his doctrine of the educational function of the state,and that Dion later headed the revolution which overthrew the despotism of Dionysus.

例如，他认为的其中一个极好机会是，他第一次呆在西西里岛，教化了暴君的侄子迪奥来狂热的他关于支持国度的教育功能的学说，后来迪奥发动了革命，推翻了狄奥尼索斯的专制。

This means that Plato unintentionally become the primary cause of this important historical event,through his teaching.
1.这意味着，柏拉图通过他的教化无意间成为了这个重大历史性时间最根本的起因。
2.这意味着，通过无意的教化，柏拉图成了这个重大历史性事件最根本的起因。
//修改原因：1.句子过长
269
一、
We naturally ask whether the whole thing was chance, or he was a tool in the hands of a higher power.
自然地，我们会怀疑，这整件事是否只是巧合，或者他只是掌权者利用的工具。

In later years,after what seemed to be the collapse of all his direct efforts to realize his hopes,this concatenation of events acquired the importance of a religious problem.
几年后，在他为了实现愿望的直接努力烟消云散之后，与这些事件的联系就要宗教问题来解释了。

And there is something of this quality of personal experience in The Republic,when he describes the miraculous preservation of the man meant by nature to be a philosopher from all the dangers which threaten him during his education in a dangerously corrupt environment .
在《理想国》中，他描述一个生来就要成为哲学家的人在极易堕落的环境中接受教育，面临着所有威胁着他的危险，最终不可思议的保持了本心，这种在个人经历中体现的品质是很了不起的。

That is what makes his description of the life of the philosopher in his world seem to be tragic:it seems that only a miracle,a divine chance,can permit a philosopher to grow up in it;and most such natures go bad before they are ever fully grown.
这也是为什么在他的形容里世界上的哲学家的命运都似乎很悲惨，因为看起来仅仅只有奇迹，那种极好的机会，才能容纳哲学家健康成长；但是大多数本性在完全长大之前就已经变质了。
二、
When Plato says the chief danger to the young philosopher is unsuitable education,he seems to be agreeing with the general complaint about the corrupting influence of the sophists-the complaint to which Socrates himself had fallen victim.
当柏拉图认为青年哲学家面临的主要的危险是不合适的教育，他似乎是同意大众关于诡辩家腐化影响的抱怨，在这种抱怨声中，苏格拉底沦为阶下囚。

But in fact it is quite contrary to his conception of education to ascribe a decisive influence to any particular individuals.
1.但是事实上把决定性的影响归咎于某个特定的个人和他的教育观点并不相符。
2.但是，事实上，把决定性的影响归咎于某个特定的人，与他的教育理念背道而驰。
//修改原因：1.句子过长

He holds that all education is spiritually a function of the community,whether it is ‘free’ or officially directed by the state.
他认为无论是自治还是由国度直接正式管理，从精神上来说，所有的教育都属于社区的一项职能。

Believing that right education can exist only in the perfect state,he constructs an idea state to be the frame for this perfect education.
因为相信正确的教育只存在于完美的国度，他为完美的教育建立了一个理想的国度作为框架。

Therefore he does not think the teachers are responsible for the faults of the existing educational system.
所以他认为教师不应该为现有的教育体系存在的错误负责。

It is community that is responsible.
这是社区的责任。

The men who blame the sophists for the degeneration of young men are themselves the greatest sophists.
那些指责诡辩家腐化青年的人才是最大的诡辩家。

It is actually the influence of the state and society that educates men and makes them into whatever society wants.
这是国家和社会的责任，他们教育人们，并使他们成为社会需要的样子。

Public meetings,law-courts,the theatres, the army,and all other assemblies where an excited crowd applauds or boos the speeches of an orator-these are the places where men of every age are moulded.
在公共集会，法庭，剧院，军队，或者其他激动的人群聚集在一起的地方，他们为演说者和喝彩或唏嘘，这是是各个年龄的人塑形的地方。

No young man,no private or individual education can withstand that power.
没有一个年轻人或者是私人的教育能够拥有这样的能量。

In such a position the individual is bound to follow the crowd’s approval or disapproval,and to take its judgments as his standard of conduct,if he wants to remain alive.
在这样的处境里，如果个人想要存活，就要和大众的观点保持一致，把大众的判断作为自己行为的标准。
No one can mould character and personality otherwise than in conformity with this ‘paideia’ conducted by the the crowd-unless perhaps he is saved by special divine interposition.
1.除了服从大众推崇的教化，没有人可以从其他途径塑造性格和品质，除非可能他幸存于一个极好的位置里。
2.除了服从大众推崇的教化，没有人可以从其他途径塑造性格和品质，除非可能他被上帝解救。
//修改原因：1.调整表达
270.
The salaried individual whom we call teachers and educators cannot help teaching us what the mob tells them to,since the mob directs public opinion.
被我们称为老师、教育家的领着薪水的人不得不按照暴民的指示去教我们，因为暴民左右着大众意见。

Their terminology of things honorable and shameful is,if closely examined,the same as the crowd’s.
1.如果细细考虑，他们最终所做事情的善恶，和暴民没什么区别。
2.如果细细研究，他们形容善恶的术语，与暴民没什么区别。
//修改原因：1.“terminology”非“terminal”

The real weakness of the sophists’ teaching,which professes to give men higher culture,is that all their judgments of value are derived from that source.
那些声称可以给予更高教养的诡辩家教育的真正缺点是，他们的价值观最源头就已经丧失。

In the present world the most successful teachers are the men who are most experts in the sounds and words that ‘the big beast’ loves.
在过去的世界里，那些所谓的最成功的老师，不过是最精通暴民喜好的人。
They have made a career out of adapting themselves.
1.他们以教育为业却未曾教育自己。
2.他们以适应环境为职业
//修改原因：1.理解有误

Thus contemporary education and pedagogy is for Plato a caricature of real paideia.
1.所以当时的教育和教育法对柏拉图来说不过是对教化的讽刺。
2.因此，当代的教育和教育法，对柏拉图来说，不过是对“派迪亚”的讽刺画。
//修改原因：1.句子过长

When he asserts that it is impossible for true paideia to exist in this world,or for a young man with a philosopher’s character to be saved,unless by a special miracle from heaven,this is general but unmistakable reference to the fact that Plato himself was originally preserved by finding Socrates,the true teacher.
当他断言，除非天堂有奇迹发生，不然那现在的世界不可能存在真正的教化，也不可能有具有哲学家品质的年轻人得以保存，这大致上是对的，不过有一个不可能出错的事实是，柏拉图自己的本性因为遇到了苏格拉底这位真正的老师而得以保留。

That was the exceptional case,where one single personality imparted to his pupil good of external value.
1.一个品德高尚的人向他的学生传授外在价值的美好只是个例。
3.能像苏格拉底这样道德高尚的人一样，向学生传授外在价值的美好，真的是少之又少。
But for his independence of the crowd’s idea,that teacher of all teachers was not paid;he had to pay with his own life.
1.要不是他有大众独立的思想，这个老师像所有老师一样平安无事；可是他不得不付出了生命的代价。
2.但是由于他与大众独立的思想，这个所有老师的老师没有报酬；他要用生命来换取报酬。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

Quite clearly,the Athenian democracy of his own day is the historical background of Plato’s picture;but his description of ‘the crowd’ is general.
1.很清楚地是，他当时的雅典民主是他人生的历史背景；但他所形容的大众却是普遍的。
2.很明显，当时雅典民主是柏拉图人生的背景板；但他所形容的大众却是笼统的。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

It is not the Athenian mob,but any mob.
这不单指雅典的暴民，这说的是所有的暴民。

This is plain from his definition-the mob does not know what is good and right in itself.
在他的定义里说的很明白，这些暴民并没有正确的善恶观。

To know what is good in itself is the mark of the philosopher,and Plato thinks it is self-contradictory to speak of a philosophical crowd.
内心有善恶的标准是哲学家的标志,柏拉图认为，谈及哲学群体是自相矛盾的。

The crowd’s natural attitude to philosopher is hostility.
大众对于哲学家的原始态度是怀有敌意的。

The same is true of the man who makes a career of flattering the crowd：he is equally hostile to philosopher.
以迎合大众为生的人一样厌恶哲学家。

How is the philosophical nature to assert itself against that enmity,and to do full justice to the inward urge it feels?
1.哲学的本性又如何知道自己受到了敌视，并且对到自己内心感受的欲望足够公正呢？
2.哲学的本质又如何对抗这种敌意，并对他感受到的内在冲动作出充分的公正的判断呢？
//修改原因：1.调整表达

Surely it will simply be used as a tool by men who foresee the great future in store for it,and play up to its baser instincts?
1.哲学会不会被仅仅当成预见了它蕴藏着的光明前景的人的工具，以此来满足内心不纯正的欲望？
2.哲学会不会被不正当的人所使用，他们看到了哲学的光明前景，把他当作工具，来满足内心不纯正的欲望
//修改原因：1.语句过长

They tell the young man he will rule over Greeks and barbarians,and inflate his mind with foolish and futile conceit.
1.他们会告诉年轻人将会由他统治希腊和野蛮人，让年轻人的脑子里充满愚蠢和无用的狂妄。
2.他们告诉年轻人，他将统治希腊和野蛮人，让愚蠢和徒劳的自负使年轻人膨胀。
//修改原因：1.调整表达

Here Plato is obviously thinking of the characters like Alcibiades and Critias,whose faults had been laid at the door of their teacher Socrates.
1.这里柏拉图当然想到了亚西比德和克里提亚斯，他们的过错被深深的烙印在了他们的老师苏格拉底身上。
2.这里，柏拉图自然地想到了亚西比德和克里提斯压，他们犯了错，烙印却深深的刻在了老师苏格拉底身上。
//修改原因：1.“当然”翻译不当
3.这里，柏拉图自然想起了亚西比德和克里提斯压等人，他们的过错却成了老师苏格拉底抹不去的烙印。

He does not,like Xenophon,attempt to disown them.
1.但是他没有像色诺芬一样去否认和他们的关系。
2.他没有像色诺芬一样与他们断绝关系。
//修改原因：1.“否认关系”改为“断绝关系”更恰当

3.（但是）他并未像色诺芬一样，与他们撇清关系。










 




 


 
 


 
